- [Tensorflowjs-alpha](#tensorflowjs-alpha)
  - [What is Machine learning?](#what-is-machine-learning)
  - [Basic terms in machine learning.](#basic-terms-in-machine-learning)
    - [Feature](#feature)
    - [Label](#label)
  - [Type of predictions](#type-of-predictions)
  - [General way of solving ML problems](#general-way-of-solving-ml-problems)

# Tensorflowjs-alpha

Machine learning and implementing it using tensorflow.

## What is Machine learning?

Machine learning (ML) is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. It is the science of getting computers to act without being explicitly programmed. It analyzes data to form future predictions by considering available information (past or current ongoing).

> From now on machine learning is mentioned in shortened form as 'ML'.

## Basic terms in machine learning.

Example process: If we want to perform a spend analysis of a persons expenditure. The information we consider is salary, amount spend on different products in past. Spending on products depend on amount of salary received.

### Feature

A variable which is not dependent on other variables, in the above mentioned example salary is feature as it is not dependent on the other variables in process.

### Label

A dependent variable is called as label, in above example money spent on different products is a label as it is dependent on salary.

## Type of predictions

Predictions are done in two-ways

- Regression
  - In this the result of labels will be a continuous set of data. example is the above process which will say the spend will be between 2 thousand to 20 thousand.
- Classification
  - This will generate output in a value that belong to a discrete set or limited number of options. Example based on past marks if we are going to decide if a student will pass or fail in future tests. The result label is confined to Pass or Fail it can be no other option.

## General way of solving ML problems

1. Identify date based on relevance
2. Assemble data based on the problem
3. Decide on type of data prediction
4. Identify an algorithm based on output and relation between 'features' and 'labels'
5. Use model generated by algorithm to make prediction.

> Sample machine learning example by StephenGrider is found at [MLKit](https://github.com/StephenGrider/MLKits)